# ece-5831
final project on Upper exo sleleton that is trained using a stochastic gradient approach.
This project thesis reports on the advancements in the wearable orthotic robotic machines called Exoskeletons. The sensibility of the exoskeleton comes from the fusion of new technologically advanced sensors like 3d-positioning(Inertial Measurement Unit), EMG, EEG, pressure pads, encoders, etc. The replication of the human joint mechanics is an important task. All these sensors in fusion together can replicate the hand movement pattern on the exoskeleton.
The exoskeleton should have sophisticated computing algorithms with simple feedback mechanisms and motors as actuators. The Algorithm used here will be a deep learning model where the electrical spikes whether it be from EMG ( Electromyography) or EEG (Electroencephalography) are used to train the weights from the sample recorded data of healthy subjects and the actuation part should be the output command of the network. It has multiple sensors together working in fusion to further improve stability and performance. It can reduce a fair amount of stress on patients' muscles. It can be used for personal use such as to lift loads in everyday life without much effort.
With a little upgrade to the motors, structural metal and power management, it can be also used for military soldiers to carry heavy loads on the battlefield. This model is mainly concerned on the EMG data learning which should be able to recognize the hand movements after the training.

